Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
sci-fi film called, "Upgrade." Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
A mechanic, Grey Trace, fixes up a car
engine in his garage. After confirming
that the engine is running, he grabs
a beer and waits for his wife, Asha.
Her self-driving car pulls up the
driveway. Asha's happy to see her husband.
Entering their home, they are welcomed
by their A.I. Grey announced that he's
finished his project and asks her to
help him deliver the car to his client,
pointing out that he will get lost if he attempts
to use her self-driving car on the way back.
Asha denies but gets interested when
Grey boasts about his client's home.
The couple drives into a remote location
near the ocean. They walk between two stone
columns where the hidden path to the house
is. Asha is impressed by its modern design.
There, they meet Grey's client, Eron Keen,
a renowned tech innovator. Asha is excited to meet
him, sharing that she works with Cobot, a tech
industry specializing in robotic limbs. Eron shows
them his latest work, a neural chip called STEM.
But Grey is unimpressed, believing that humans
are still better than artificial intelligence.
On their way back home, Asha and Grey become
intimate while the self-driving car takes them
home. But Grey notices that the car has taken a
different route. Asha tries to redirect the car,
but the system malfunctions. The car starts
driving recklessly. Grey pushes Asha back,
strapping her on a seatbelt just
before the car crashes and turns.
People outside witness the
accident, but they do not approach.
The A.I. announces that it has
contacted emergency services to help.
Four men approach the car, dragging them
both out. Above, a police drone records the
events. Grey is held down while one of the men
threatens Asha and shoots her in the stomach.
Then, they shoot Grey on the back
of his neck, leaving him paralyzed.
Grey tries to encourage his wife, hoping to keep
her conscious. But Asha takes her last breath.
Three months later, Grey returns home in a
wheelchair. The men had severed his spinal cord,
leaving him a quadriplegic. New upgrades
have been installed in his house to help him,
while his mother, Pamela, often visits to care for
him. Grey breaks down, traumatized and grieving.
At the police station, they meet Detective Cortez,
who's assigned to investigate the event. But they
still haven't found the men who jumped on them.
His condition and inability to help
get justice sinks Grey into depression.
He attempts an overdose that
puts him back in the hospital.
There, Eron offers a STEM implant that
would reconnect his spinal cord to his body.
Grey refuses, wanting his life to be over instead.
Eron asks him what Asha would've wanted before
leaving. The thought makes Grey reconsider.
In Eron's home, Grey undergoes surgery
to install STEM into his spine.
After the surgery, he goes through physical
therapy. Here, Grey moves his hand for the
first time in months. Soon after, he's able to
walk and stand. The STEM operation is successful.
Grey signs a confidentiality agreement,
preventing him from letting anyone else know.
He continues his therapy in Eron's home, assured
that he is still in control of his body, not STEM.
Back in his home, he enters on a wheelchair
but stands up once the door is closed.
He receives a package of evidence
and reports left by Cortez.
He looks through the files and
watches the footage of the incident.
Suddenly, he hears a voice. Grey thinks it's
an intruder, but STEM introduces itself.
STEM assures him that he hasn't gone insane,
telling him that the chip is merely sending
sound waves to his eardrum to communicate.
STEM directs his attention to the footage,
pointing out that the man who
fired at Asha is not holding a gun.
STEM also noticed that one of the
other men has a tattoo on his wrist.
With Grey's permission, STEM controls his
hand to recreate the tattoo. Grey recognizes
that it's a military tattoo, and STEM uses the
numbers to access information about the man.
Filled with sudden hope, Grey calls
Cortez to give her the information,
but STEM reminds him that he signed the
confidentiality agreement; thus, he cannot
reveal how he got the information. STEM suggests
for him to find physical evidence instead.
From STEM's information, Grey finds the
suspect's apartment and breaks in. Inside,
STEM instructs him to check the computer on the
coffee table. He searches through the messages but
finds no useful information other than the local
bar, Old Bones, being mentioned several times.
While he's searching the house, a car pulls up,
and someone enters. STEM directs Grey to hide
and attack the man, Serk. But Grey hesitates.
Serk overpowers him and pins him to the wall,
where he recognizes Grey. Grey tries to fight him
but is defeated. STEM asks permission to help,
and Grey accepts. Under STEM's control, Grey
gets the advantage over the fight. After Serk
pulls out a knife, Grey asks STEM to stop
him. STEM takes the knife and kills Serk.
In shock, Grey vomits in the sink. STEM
advises him to clean up any trace of his
presence in the house, but Grey is still
in shock at what he had done. Nervous,
he asks STEM what he needs to do. STEM has
recorded everything he touched in the house,
making it easier for them
to erase his fingerprints.
Hours later, Cortez investigates Serk's autopsy.
The coroner found numerous implants in the
body, including a gun implant on his arm.
They also found engine grease
from the front porch of his house.
At Eron's home, Eron informs Grey that he can
track him through STEM. Eron scolds him that
their operation should remain a secret, and his
investigation might expose them. Grey retaliates
that Eron kept STEM's ability to communicate
with him a secret. Eron is dumbfounded at the
news. Eron insists that Grey shouldn't risk any
activity that could put him and STEM in danger.
Meanwhile, Cortez continues the
investigation on Serk. She finds
drone footage showing Grey in his wheelchair
near Serk's house before the crime happened.
But the system disregards Grey as a
suspect, given that he's a quadriplegic.
Unsatisfied, Cortez visits Grey. She
talks to him about his car, but STEM
notices that she checked his boots, alerting
them that they left a print on Serk's house.
Cortez brings up Serk's passing and seeing the
footage of Grey being in the area at the time it
happened. Grey lies that he was trying to help the
investigation, but he couldn't have done anything.
Once she leaves, Grey tells STEM that he
wants to find the people responsible for
Asha's assassination, but he doesn't want
to hurt anyone. STEM suggests going to the
Old Bones but reminds Grey that Eron will
track him there and shut STEM down remotely.
Despite this, Grey visits the Old Bones bar.
Grey calls out to the people at the bar.
He asks about Serk but gets
laughed at. A man named Tolan
walks up to him and removes his earpiece. Grey
admits that he's the one who took Serk's life,
angering Tolan. Tolan takes him to the
bathroom, bringing other men with them. Tolan
starts stabbing him to check if he feels anything,
ignoring Grey's questions. Grey gets his attention
by pointing out the gun implant. Tolan finally
admits to being there during the car crash.
With STEM in control, Grey fights
the men, knocking down the others.
Grey pins Tolan down and interrogates him, but he
resists. Grey threatens him with a knife but can't
bring himself to hurt the man. He gives STEM
permission to do it, with Grey looking away.
After a while, Grey tells STEM to stop and
recoils at the sight of what it has done.
Tolan finally tells him
that the incident was a job.
He gives him the name Fisk, but Tolan dies
before he can tell more. From Tolan's injury,
Grey sees a computer chip branded COBOT,
the company where Asha used to work in.
Before he could let the information sink in,
STEM informs him that Eron is attempting to
shut it down remotely. STEM instructs Grey
to visit a hacker nearby to disable Eron's
remote control on it. Grey arms himself
as STEM instructs before leaving the bar.
In a hurry, Grey leaves his
wheelchair behind and runs.
As he nears the location, STEM gives Grey a code
to disable Eron's access. Grey begins to lose
control of his limbs due to STEM shutting down. He
hurriedly crawls up the stairs to the apartment.
Back at the bar, Fisk, the
man who ended Asha's life,
accesses Tolan's memory through his implants.
He gets Grey's next location. Fisk questions
why the bartender didn't intervene in the
fight, sneezing in his face. His sneeze
delivers thousands of nanobots that the
bartender inhales, ending the man's life.
Grey finally reaches the hacker's apartment
just as STEM completely shuts down.
The hacker, Jamie, pulls him inside
the room full of people playing VR.
She works on the code, but Fisk and
his bodyguard arrive in the building.
Jamie finishes the code and tells Grey to
wait for the reboot. An alarm triggers,
alerting Jamie that Fisk and the bodyguard
are near. She packs up and leaves Grey behind.
Outside, Eron's security team
arrives as well to collect Grey.
Unable to move, Grey panics. He
begins to gain control of one arm,
which he uses to crawl. He stops, seeing a
vision of Asha, just before Fisk enters the room.
STEM fully reboots, allowing Grey to
escape the two men. Fisk's bodyguard
chases him while Fisk dispatches
the security team from the elevator.
Grey climbs up the fire escape,
but the rooftop has no escape.
STEM takes control, successfully using
the bodyguard's implant against himself.
Fisk finds the body, but Grey is no longer there.
Grey returns home, surprised to see Pamela there.
Pamela asks about the operation, but Grey
insists that no one else should know.
Pamela is joyful that her son can walk
again, but this doesn't comfort Grey at all.
In his home, Eron looks mournful and
afraid. He has lost access to STEM.
Grey dreams about Asha sitting next to his
bed. Cortez arrives, telling him that they
found his wheelchair near the Old Bones. Grey
claims that he followed someone there but got
into a fight with the person. Luckily, he was
helped out by strangers, who put him in a cab.
During his story, Cortez
slips her hand in Grey's coat.
Grey admits that he wants to find
the men responsible for Asha's death.
Cortez reminds him that it's easy to find
someone else to do it for him. Grey dares
her to scan his phone records to check. When
Grey becomes emotional, Cortez and Pamela leave.
Confused, Grey argues to STEM that they need to
stop. STEM shuts its functions off, disabling
Grey. STEM reveals that the code he gave the
hacker gave it full autonomy, no longer requiring
Grey's permission to act on its own. STEM insists
on finding Fisk before he eliminates them.
STEM takes control of Grey, arming
him. Pamela sees him getting ready.
Worried, she asks him what he's
done, but Grey doesn't respond.
Listening from the transmitter in
his coat, Cortez is in her car,
taking notes. She hears Pamela say that Grey
came home, covered in blood and that he's
currently armed. Cortez watches Grey drive
out from his garage, and she follows him.
While driving, Grey finds the
listening device in his pocket.
STEM missed it due to it being an analog
device. Grey throws the device out in the road.
Cortez turns her police siren on, pursuing Grey.
Hoping to lose her, Grey begins maneuvering
around cars. But Cortez keeps up.
Grey pushes another car onto
hers, causing her to slow down.
Seeing that they can't outrun her, STEM accesses
a self-driving car, causing it to crash onto
Cortez's. Having lost Grey, she goes back to
his home and interrogates a weeping Pamela.
Grey finds Fisk in his home, holding him
at gunpoint. Fisk recounts that he was a
soldier who was injured in battle. After,
he was used as a lab experiment in Cobot.
Fisk argues that his actions gave Grey an
upgrade in life, becoming stronger than most.
He offers Grey a position with his team.
But Grey insists on knowing the truth.
Fisk reveals that their job wasn't about Cobot,
that it was to sever Grey's spine intentionally.
Asha was just collateral.
Angered, Grey fires his gun.
Fisk evades and disarms him. The two men
fight, seemingly equal with their upgrades.
STEM alerts Grey about Fisk's nanobots, stopping
him before he releases them. STEM is confused at
how Fisk predicts his moves. Fisk finally has Grey
pinned to the wall, aiming his armed hand at him.
STEM is at a loss with its position.
Grey comes up with an idea, realizing
that Fisk is Serk's brother. Grey taunts
him by insulting his brother. Angered,
Fisk punches him instead, allowing Grey
to get the upper hand and eliminate him.
Grey is troubled at what he's done. STEM urges
him to continue finding the person who hired them.
Listening to a phone recording, they
hear Eron's voice warning Fisk about him.
Grey arrives at Eron's house, easily eliminating
his security team. A disheveled Eron waits for
him. Grey accuses him of orchestrating everything,
which Eron denies. Cortez arrives, holding Grey at
gunpoint. Grey convinces STEM to throw away
their gun as Cortez ordered. She orders him
to lie on the floor to handcuff him. Instead, STEM
throws her off. Grey begs STEM not to hurt Cortez.
He fights STEM's control despite STEM's
warnings that it will break his mind.
Holding Cortez by the neck, Grey
begs her to use the taser on him.
She does so, temporarily
causing STEM to malfunction.
Eron points the gun at Grey, revealing that
he's been controlled by STEM the entire time.
STEM was the one who chose Grey to be
his host and led Grey to kill Eron,
eliminating the only person who could create
another STEM. In the process of rebooting,
STEM confesses to Grey that it chose him for
being a human without any artificial implants.
Grey mourns, realizing that he's been
manipulated by the same thing that took his wife.
STEM begins to talk via the house's A.I.
system. He commands Eron to put the gun
down. But STEM is finally able to control
Grey again, forcing him to eliminate Eron.
When STEM attempts to shoot Cortez,
Grey fights back again. He forces his hand to aim
the gun at his neck instead. He pulls the trigger.
Grey wakes up in a hospital, still able to move
his limbs. Scared, he calls for STEM, but it
doesn't answer. Instead, Asha walks in, alive
and happy to see him. She tells him that he's
been unconscious for two days after an accident.
In disbelief, Grey tearfully stares at his wife.
Back in Eron's house, STEM has taken
complete control of Grey's body.
Grey's mind broke when he tried to
fight STEM, allowing STEM to put
his consciousness away and fully possess his
body. STEM fires the gun at Cortez and leaves.
Grey remains in the reality STEM made for him,
happily reunited with his wife, while
STEM leaves the scene in total control.